In the previous video, we already learn the
concept of port security.
The summary is, port security is used to securing
switch interfaces.
So if one day there is hackers unplug the
cable and connecting the cable to their computer,
the switch interface should be blocked.
So the hackers can not send any packet anywhere.
In this video, we are going to practice about
port security.
Let’s just start, open the switch, go to
CLI, enable, configure terminal,
next let’s go to the interface connected to the server 1,
in this case fa0/1,
we will configure port security on fa0/1 first.
Here interface fa0/1.
To configure port security, we need to change
the mode to access first, because by default,
the mode on the switch is dynamic auto, let’s
check it, do show interface fa0/1 switchport,
here we can see that the administrative mode
is dynamic auto.
And remember that we need to change the mode
to access first before configuring port security.
So here, switchport mode access.
Okay next to activate port security, the command
is switchport port-security like this.
Remember that this command is used to activate
port security in this interface.
Next we need to register the mac address of
the server 1.
Go to server 1, config section, and then go
to fa0.
Here we can see a mac address.
Let’s copy this,
Back to the switch, and then let’s register
the mac address of server 1,
the command is switchport port-security mac-address and then
paste the mac address of server 1.
Okay, so now the server or computer that allowed
to connect to fa0/1 is only server 1.
This is because we input the mac address of
server 1 here.
Next we need to configure the maximum computer
who are allowed to connect to this interface,
the command is switchport port-security maximimum
1, this is means that only 1 server or computer
who allowed to connect to fa0/1.
Last, we need to configure violation, violation
is an action if there is an illegal computer
connected to the interface.
The command is switchport port-security violation
and then question mark, here we can see that
we have 3 option for violation, which is shutdown,
restrict, and protect.
In this case we are going to use shutdown
first, we will learn about restrict and protect
in the next video.
If we use violation shutdown like this, if
there is an illegal computer connected to
the interface, the interface will be automatically
shutdown.
In packet tracer, the light of cable will
become red.
Okay now we have done configuring port security
on fa0/1.
I think enough for this video, in the next video, we are going to test our port security configuration.
Thankyou for watching and see you on the next video.